* Luhn's Algorithm

Multiply every odd by 2.
Sum the multiplied odd with the sum of evens.
If the resulting number mod 10 is 0, it's valid.

* American Express
- 15 digits
- Starts with 34, 37
* MasterCard
- 16 digits
- Starts with 51-55
* Visa
- 13, 16 digits
- Starts with 4

* Code

Check Luhn's
Check starting number
Check for number length
Return AMEX, MASTERCARD, VISA, INVALID

How to check Lunh's

Get the number as long from get_long
Use the modulus operator to get number by number
How to know it ended?


First we need to understand the input,
the input is a variable length of number
that ranges from 13 to 16 digits.
Some can be determined invalid by the incorrect number of digits.

First we have to determine if the length of the card makes sense.

After that we have to check the starting numbers of each card
and to know if that corresponds to the bank branch.

We know that for 13 digits there is only Visa that starts from 4
We know that for 15 digits there is only American Express that starts from 34 and 37
We know that for 16 digits there is only Visa and Mastercard, 4 for Visa and 51 to 55 for Mastercard.

Given the next conditions we can determine first if the lenght of the number matches 13, 15 or 16 digits,
if the given input is not one of those it is invalid for this case.

After determining the digits of the number, we have to check what number it starts from, if it matches the pattern
of the banks that are named in each case, we continue, else we discard that number as invalid.

At last given the matching digits and starting numbers, we use the Luhn's Algorithm to determine if it is a valid card.

I chose to do it this way because there are less options for the first case so we can sort out the most numbers of numbers,

the second step with help of the first step, we narrow down the check for the beggining numbers of the card.

Leaving Luhn's Algorithm for last because it is the most computationally expensive operation.


To implement Lunh's algorithm we need to separate the even and odd
We can use a for loop, inside the for loop, if % 2 = 0 is pair.

it would be good to add to a value for odd and even

Finally adding them up